# Project Title

## Table of Contents

1. [Description of Folders and Files](#description-of-folders-and-files)
2. [How to Use the Project](#how-to-use-the-project)
3. [Adding New Content](#adding-new-content)
   - [Adding a New Analysis](#adding-a-new-analysis)
   - [Adding a Function to the Project Pipeline](#adding-a-function-to-the-project-pipeline)

## Description of Folders and Files

- **analysis/**: 
   - Contains Jupyter notebooks for analyses. Each notebook has its own folder in `data/analysis/` to store generated or utilized data.
  
- **data/**:
  - **analysis/**: Specific data for analyses.
  - **raw/**: Initial data.
  - **processed/**: Processed data derived from `raw/` folder. This folder is tipically generated by the first function in the project pipeline.
  - Additional folders may exist to store files generated by the project pipeline. These folders can be organized based on the type of output or the specific functions that create them.

- **src/**: 
  - **project_execution.ipynb**: Displays the project pipeline.
  - **project_functions.py**: Contains functions used in the pipeline.

- **utils/**: 
   - Useful and reusable Python files for other analyses or projects.

- **.gitignore**:
   - Excludes the `data/` and `venv/` folders from versioning.

- **data.txt**: 
   - Documents the structure of the `data/` folder (generated by `tree -asD data > data.txt`).

- **requirements.txt**: 
   - Lists the dependencies required for the project.

## How to Use the Project

1. **Create a Virtual Environment**: 
   - Create a virtual environment named `venv`.

2. **Install Dependencies**: 
   - Install the necessary dependencies by running:
      ```bash
      pip install -r requirements.txt
      ```

3. **Run Project Pipeline**: 
   - Open the `src/project_execution.ipynb` notebook to execute the entire project pipeline. This notebook orchestrates the various functions and processes defined in the project, allowing you to see the overall workflow.

4. **Run Analyses**: 
   - Open the Jupyter notebooks in the `analysis/` folder to perform individual analyses. These notebooks are separate scripts that can be executed independently of the project pipeline.

## Adding New Content

### Adding a New Analysis

To add a new analysis to the project, follow these steps:

1. **Create a New Jupyter Notebook**:
   - In the `analysis/` folder, create a new Jupyter notebook (e.g., `new_analysis.ipynb`).

2. **Create a Corresponding Data Folder**:
   - Inside the `data/analysis/` folder, create a new folder with the same name as your notebook (e.g., `new_analysis/`).
   - This folder will be used to store any data files generated or utilized during your analysis.

3. **Implement Your Analysis**:
   - In your new Jupyter notebook, write the code for your analysis. Make sure to save any output data files in the corresponding folder you created in `data/analysis/`.

4. **Document Your Analysis**:
   - Include comments and markdown cells in your notebook to explain your analysis process, findings, and any conclusions drawn.

### Adding a Function to the Project Pipeline

To add a new function to the project pipeline, follow these steps:

1. **Test Your Function**:
   - Before integrating your new function into the pipeline, ensure that you have tested it in a Jupyter Notebook. This will help you verify its correctness and functionality.

2. **Open the Functions File**:
   - Open the `src/project_functions.py` file where the existing functions are defined.

3. **Define Your New Function**:
   - Write your new function in the `project_functions.py` file. Ensure that the function is well-documented with comments explaining its purpose, parameters, and return values.

   ```python
   def new_function(param1, param2):
       """
       Description of what the function does.
       
       Parameters:
       param1: Description of parameter 1
       param2: Description of parameter 2
       
       Returns:
       Description of the return value
       """
       # Function implementation
       return
    ```

4. **Integrate the Function into the Pipeline**:
    - Open the `src/project_execution.ipynb` file.
    - To add your new function to the execution pipeline, append a new object to the execution list. Each object should contain:
        - the function to be executed
        - a boolean indicating whether to execute it
        - a list of arguments to pass to the function. 
        
        For example:
        ```python
        {
            'function': pu.new_function,
            'execute': True,
            'args': [arg1, arg2],  # Replace with actual arguments
        }
        ```
